---
title: "Section 1395fff - Prospective payment for home health services"
usc_title: 42
usc_section: "1395fff"
chapter: 7
current_through: "PL 115-64"
classification: "42 U.S.C. § 1395fff"
generated_at: "2026-03-30T06:45:38.544Z"
status: "active"
---

# § 1395fff. Prospective payment for home health services

- **(a)** Notwithstanding section 1395x(v) of this title , the Secretary shall provide, for portions of cost reporting periods occurring on or after October 1, 2000 , for payments for home health services in accordance with a prospective payment system established by the Secretary under this section.
- **(b)**
  - **(1)** The Secretary shall establish under this subsection a prospective payment system for payment for all costs of home health services. Under the system under this subsection all services covered and paid on a reasonable cost basis under the medicare home health benefit as of August 5, 1997 , including medical supplies, shall be paid for on the basis of a prospective payment amount determined under this subsection and applicable to the services involved. In implementing the system, the Secretary may provide for a transition (of not longer than 4 years) during which a portion of such payment is based on agency-specific costs, but only if such transition does not result in aggregate payments under this subchapter that exceed the aggregate payments that would be made if such a transition did not occur.
  - **(2)** In defining a prospective payment amount under the system under this subsection, the Secretary shall consider an appropriate unit of service and the number, type, and duration of visits provided within that unit, potential changes in the mix of services provided within that unit and their cost, and a general system design that provides for continued access to quality services.
  - **(3)**
    - **(A)**
      - **(i)** Under such system the Secretary shall provide for computation of a standard prospective payment amount (or amounts) as follows:
        - **(I)** Such amount (or amounts) shall initially be based on the most current audited cost report data available to the Secretary and shall be computed in a manner so that the total amounts payable under the system for the 12-month period beginning on the date the Secretary implements the system shall be equal to the total amount that would have been made if the system had not been in effect and if section 1395x(v)(1)(L)(ix) of this title had not been enacted.
        - **(II)** For the 12-month period beginning after the period described in subclause (I), such amount (or amounts) shall be equal to the amount (or amounts) determined under subclause (I), updated under subparagraph (B).
        - **(III)** Subject to clause (iii), for periods beginning after the period described in subclause (II), such amount (or amounts) shall be equal to the amount (or amounts) that would have been determined under subclause (I) that would have been made for fiscal year 2001 if the system had not been in effect and if section 1395x(v)(1)(L)(ix) of this title had not been enacted but if the reduction in limits described in clause (ii) had been in effect, updated under subparagraph (B).
      - **(ii)** The reduction described in this clause is a reduction by 15 percent in the cost limits and per beneficiary limits described in section 1395x(v)(1)(L) of this title , as those limits are in effect on September 30, 2000 .
      - **(iii)**
        - **(I)** Subject to subclause (II), for 2014 and subsequent years, the amount (or amounts) that would otherwise be applicable under clause (i)(III) shall be adjusted by a percentage determined appropriate by the Secretary to reflect such factors as changes in the number of visits in an episode, the mix of services in an episode, the level of intensity of services in an episode, the average cost of providing care per episode, and other factors that the Secretary considers to be relevant. In conducting the analysis under the preceding sentence, the Secretary may consider differences between hospital-based and freestanding agencies, between for-profit and nonprofit agencies, and between the resource costs of urban and rural agencies. Such adjustment shall be made before the update under subparagraph (B) is applied for the year.
        - **(II)** The Secretary shall provide for a 4-year phase-in (in equal increments) of the adjustment under subclause (I), with such adjustment being fully implemented for 2017. During each year of such phase-in, the amount of any adjustment under subclause (I) for the year may not exceed 3.5 percent of the amount (or amounts) applicable under clause (i)(III) as of March 23, 2010 .
    - **(B)**
      - **(i)** The standard prospective payment amount (or amounts) shall be adjusted for fiscal year 2002 and for fiscal year 2003 and for each subsequent year (beginning with 2004) in a prospective manner specified by the Secretary by the home health applicable increase percentage (as defined in clause (ii)) applicable to the fiscal year or year involved.
      - **(ii)** For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “home health applicable increase percentage” means, with respect to—
        - **(I)** each of fiscal years 2002 and 2003, the home health market basket percentage increase (as defined in clause (iii)) minus 1.1 percentage points;
        - **(II)** for 1 1 So in original. The word “for” probably should not appear. the last calendar quarter of 2003 and the first calendar quarter of 2004, the home health market basket percentage increase;
        - **(III)** the last 3 calendar quarters of 2004, and all of 2005 2 2 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. the home health market basket percentage increase minus 0.8 percentage points;
        - **(IV)** 2006, 0 percent; and
        - **(V)** any subsequent year, subject to clauses (v) and (vi), the home health market basket percentage increase.
      - **(iii)** For purposes of this subsection, the term “home health market basket percentage increase” means, with respect to a fiscal year or year, a percentage (estimated by the Secretary before the beginning of the fiscal year or year) determined and applied with respect to the mix of goods and services included in home health services in the same manner as the market basket percentage increase under section 1395ww(b)(3)(B)(iii) of this title is determined and applied to the mix of goods and services comprising inpatient hospital services for the fiscal year or year. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the home health market basket percentage increase for 2018 shall be 1 percent.
      - **(iv)** Insofar as the Secretary determines that the adjustments under paragraph (4)(A)(i) for a previous fiscal year or year (or estimates that such adjustments for a future fiscal year or year) did (or are likely to) result in a change in aggregate payments under this subsection during the fiscal year or year that are a result of changes in the coding or classification of different units of services that do not reflect real changes in case mix, the Secretary may adjust the standard prospective payment amount (or amounts) under paragraph (3) for subsequent fiscal years or years so as to eliminate the effect of such coding or classification changes.
      - **(v)**
        - **(I)** For purposes of clause (ii)(V), for 2007 and each subsequent year, in the case of a home health agency that does not submit data to the Secretary in accordance with subclauses (II) and (IV) with respect to such a year, the home health market basket percentage increase applicable under such clause for such year shall be reduced by 2 percentage points. Such reduction shall apply only with respect to the year involved, and the Secretary shall not take into account such reduction in computing the prospective payment amount under this section for a subsequent year, and the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission shall carry out the requirements under section 5201(d) of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005.
        - **(II)** Subject to subclause (V), for 2007 and each subsequent year, each home health agency shall submit to the Secretary such data that the Secretary determines are appropriate for the measurement of health care quality. Such data shall be submitted in a form and manner, and at a time, specified by the Secretary for purposes of this clause.
        - **(III)** The Secretary shall establish procedures for making data submitted under subclause (II) and subclause (IV)(aa) available to the public. Such procedures shall ensure that a home health agency has the opportunity to review the data that is to be made public with respect to the agency prior to such data being made public.
        - **(IV)**
        - **(V)** To the extent data submitted under subclause (IV) duplicates other data required to be submitted under subclause (II), the submission of such data under subclause (IV) shall be in lieu of the submission of such data under subclause (II). The previous sentence shall not apply insofar as the Secretary determines it is necessary to avoid a delay in the implementation of section 1395 lll of this title, taking into account the different specified application dates under subsection (a)(2)(E) of such section.
      - **(vi)** After determining the home health market basket percentage increase under clause (iii), and after application of clause (v), the Secretary shall reduce such percentage—
        - **(I)** for 2015 and each subsequent year (except 2018), by the productivity adjustment described in section 1395ww(b)(3)(B)(xi)(II) of this title ; and
        - **(II)** for each of 2011, 2012, and 2013, by 1 percentage point.
    - **(C)** The Secretary shall reduce the standard prospective payment amount (or amounts) under this paragraph applicable to home health services furnished during a period by such proportion as will result in an aggregate reduction in payments for the period equal to 5 percent of the total payments estimated to be made based on the prospective payment system under this subsection for the period.
  - **(4)**
    - **(A)** The payment amount for a unit of home health services shall be the applicable standard prospective payment amount adjusted as follows:
      - **(i)** The amount shall be adjusted by an appropriate case mix adjustment factor (established under subparagraph (B)).
      - **(ii)** The portion of such amount that the Secretary estimates to be attributable to wages and wage-related costs shall be adjusted for geographic differences in such costs by an area wage adjustment factor (established under subparagraph (C)) for the area in which the services are furnished or such other area as the Secretary may specify.
    - **(B)** The Secretary shall establish appropriate case mix adjustment factors for home health services in a manner that explains a significant amount of the variation in cost among different units of services.
    - **(C)** The Secretary shall establish area wage adjustment factors that reflect the relative level of wages and wage-related costs applicable to the furnishing of home health services in a geographic area compared to the national average applicable level. Such factors may be the factors used by the Secretary for purposes of section 1395ww(d)(3)(E) of this title .
  - **(5)**
    - **(A)** Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary may provide for an addition or adjustment to the payment amount otherwise made in the case of outliers because of unusual variations in the type or amount of medically necessary care. The total amount of the additional payments or payment adjustments made under this paragraph with respect to a fiscal year or year may not exceed 2.5 percent of the total payments projected or estimated to be made based on the prospective payment system under this subsection in that year.
    - **(B)** The estimated total amount of additional payments or payment adjustments made under subparagraph (A) with respect to a home health agency for a year (beginning with 2011) may not exceed an amount equal to 10 percent of the estimated total amount of payments made under this section (without regard to this paragraph) with respect to the home health agency for the year.
  - **(6)** If a beneficiary elects to transfer to, or receive services from, another home health agency within the period covered by the prospective payment amount, the payment shall be prorated between the home health agencies involved.
- **(c)** With respect to home health services furnished on or after October 1, 1998 , no claim for such a service may be paid under this subchapter unless—
  - **(1)** the claim has the unique identifier (provided under section 1395u(r) of this title ) for the physician who prescribed the services or made the certification described in section 1395f(a)(2) or 1395n(a)(2)(A) of this title; and
  - **(2)** in the case of a service visit described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of section 1395x(m) of this title , the claim contains a code (or codes) specified by the Secretary that identifies the length of time of the service visit, as measured in 15 minute increments.
- **(d)** There shall be no administrative or judicial review under section 1395ff of this title , 1395 oo of this title, or otherwise of—
  - **(1)** the establishment of a transition period under subsection (b)(1);
  - **(2)** the definition and application of payment units under subsection (b)(2);
  - **(3)** the computation of initial standard prospective payment amounts under subsection (b)(3)(A) (including the reduction described in clause (ii) of such subsection);
  - **(4)** the establishment of the adjustment for outliers under subsection (b)(3)(C);
  - **(5)** the establishment of case mix and area wage adjustments under subsection (b)(4); and
  - **(6)** the establishment of any adjustments for outliers under subsection (b)(5).
- **(e)**
  - **(1)** Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing a home health agency furnishing a home health unit of service for which payment is made under the prospective payment system established by this section for such units of service from furnishing services via a telecommunication system if such services—
    - **(A)** do not substitute for in-person home health services ordered as part of a plan of care certified by a physician pursuant to section 1395f(a)(2)(C) or 1395n(a)(2)(A) of this title; and
    - **(B)** are not considered a home health visit for purposes of eligibility or payment under this subchapter.
  - **(2)** Nothing in this section shall be construed as waiving the requirement for a physician certification under section 1395f(a)(2)(C) or 1395n(a)(2)(A) of this title for the payment for home health services, whether or not furnished via a telecommunications system.
