---
title: "Section 358 - Contributions"
usc_title: 45
usc_section: "358"
chapter: 11
current_through: "PL 113-125"
classification: "45 U.S.C. § 358"
generated_at: "2026-03-30T03:58:19.483Z"
status: "active"
---

# § 358. Contributions

- **(a)**
  - **(1)**
    - **(A)**
      - **(i)** Every employer shall pay a contribution, with respect to having employees in his service, equal to the percentage determined under subparagraph (B), (C), or (D), whichever is applicable, of so much of the compensation paid in any calendar month by such employer to any employee as is not in excess of the monthly compensation base for that month as computed under section 351(i) of this title .
      - **(ii)** If compensation is paid to an employee by more than one employer in any calendar month—
        - **(I)** the contributions required by this subsection shall not apply to any amount of the aggregate compensation paid to such employee by all such employers in such calendar month which is in excess of such monthly compensation base; and
        - **(II)** each employer (other than a subordinate unit of a national-railway-labor-organization employer) shall be liable for that portion of the contribution with respect to such compensation paid by all such employers which the compensation paid by him to such employee bears to the total compensation paid in such month by all such employers to such employee.
    - **(B)**
      - **(i)** Except as provided in clause (vi), with respect to compensation paid in calendar years 1988, 1989, and 1990, the contribution rate shall be 8 percent.
      - **(ii)** With respect to compensation paid in calendar year 1991, the contribution rate shall be the smaller of—
        - **(I)** the maximum contribution limit computed under paragraph (20); or
        - **(II)** the percentage computed pursuant to the following formula: 2A+B R= ——— 3
      - **(iii)** With respect to compensation paid in calendar year 1992, the contribution rate shall be the smaller of—
        - **(I)** the maximum contribution limit computed under paragraph (20); or
        - **(II)** the percentage computed pursuant to the following formula: A+2C R= ——— 3
      - **(iv)** For purposes of the formulas in clauses (ii) and (iii)—
        - **(I)** “R” is the applicable contribution rate expressed as a percentage for months in the calendar year;
        - **(II)** “A” is the contribution rate determined under clause (i);
        - **(III)** “B” is the percentage rate for the employer, as determined under subparagraph (C), for calendar year 1991; and
        - **(IV)** “C” is the percentage rate for the employer, as determined under subparagraph (C), for calendar year 1992.
      - **(v)** For purposes of computing B and C in such formulas—
        - **(I)** the percentage rate computed under subparagraph (C), if more than the maximum contribution limit computed under paragraph (20) shall not be reduced to that limit; and
        - **(II)** any computations which under subparagraph (C) are to be made on the basis of a 4-quarter or a 12-quarter period ending on a given June 30 shall be made on the basis of a period beginning on January 1, 1990 , and ending on that June 30, and the amount so computed shall be increased to an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount so computed as 4 or 12, as appropriate, bears to the number of calendar quarters in the period on which the computation was based.
      - **(vi)** With respect to each of calendar years 1989 and 1990, the contribution of the National Railroad Passenger Corporation and an employer which on November 10, 1988 , is a publicly funded and publicly operated carrier providing rail commuter service shall be equal to the amount of benefits attributable to such carrier, plus an amount equal to 0.65 percent of the total compensation paid by that employer in that year on which that employer’s contribution would be based under clause (i) if such employer’s contribution were determined under that clause.
    - **(C)** With respect to compensation paid in a calendar year that begins after December 31, 1992 , the contribution rate for each employer shall be determined as follows:
      - **(i)** Compute the employer’s benefit ratio as of the preceding June 30 to 4 decimal points in accordance with paragraph (2).
      - **(ii)** Subtract the employer’s reserve ratio as of the preceding June 30 as computed to 4 decimal points in accordance with paragraph (4).
      - **(iii)** Subtract the pooled credit ratio for the calendar year, if any, as computed to 4 decimal points in accordance with paragraph (12).
      - **(iv)** Multiply by 100 the total arrived at under the steps set forth in clauses (i) through (iii) so as to obtain a percentage rate, which shall be rounded to the nearest 100th of 1 percent. If the total arrived at under such steps is 0 or less than 0, the percentage rate as so computed shall be 0.
      - **(v)** Add 0.65 to the percentage rate arrived at under clause (iv), representing the portion of the employer’s contribution which is to be deposited to the credit of the fund under subsection (i) of this section.
      - **(vi)** Add the surcharge rate for the calendar year, if any, as computed under paragraph (14).
      - **(vii)** Add the pooled charge ratio for the calendar year, if any, as computed to 4 decimal points under paragraph (13) and multiplied by 100.
      - **(viii)** Reduce the precentage 1 1 So in original. Probably should be “percentage”. rate computed in accordance with the preceding steps to the maximum contribution limit computed under paragraph (20), if such rate is higher than such limit. The rate computed in accordance with the preceding steps, after any reduction under this clause, is the contribution rate.
    - **(D)** Notwithstanding subparagraphs (B) and (C), the contribution rate applicable to a new employer who does not become subject to this chapter until after December 31, 1989 , shall be determined as follows:
      - **(i)** With respect to compensation paid in calendar months before the end of the first full calendar year in which the employer is subject to this chapter, the contribution rate shall be the average contribution rate paid by all employers during the 3 calendar years preceding the calendar year before the calendar year in which the compensation is paid. The average contribution rate shall be determined—
        - **(I)** by dividing the aggregate contributions paid by all employers under this subsection in those 3 calendar years by the aggregate compensation with respect to which such contributions were paid; and
        - **(II)** by multiplying the resulting ratio as computed to 4 decimal points by 100.
      - **(ii)** With respect to compensation paid in calendar months in the next calendar year, the contribution rate shall be the smaller of—
        - **(I)** the maximum contribution limit computed under paragraph (20); or
        - **(II)** the percentage rate computed pursuant to the following formula: 2(A2)+B R= A ————  3
      - **(iii)** With respect to compensation paid in calendar months in the third full calendar year in which the employer is subject to the coverage of this chapter, the contribution rate shall be the smaller of—
        - **(I)** the maximum contribution limit computed under paragraph (20); or
        - **(II)** the percentage rate computed pursuant to the following formula: A3+2C R= ——— 3
      - **(iv)** With respect to all calendar months in calendar years subsequent to that calendar year, the contribution rate shall be determined under subparagraph (C).
      - **(v)** For purposes of the formulas in clauses (ii) and (iii)—
        - **(I)** “R” is the applicable contribution rate expressed as a percentage for months in the calendar year;
        - **(II)** “A1” is the contribution rate determined under clause (i) for such employer’s first full calendar year;
        - **(III)** “A2” is the contribution rate which would have been determined under clause (i) if the employer’s second calendar year had been its first full calendar year;
        - **(IV)** “A3” is the contribution rate which would have been determined under clause (i) if the employer’s third calendar year had been such employer’s first full calendar year;
        - **(V)** “B” is the contribution rate for the employer as determined under subparagraph (C) for the employer’s second full calendar year; and
        - **(VI)** “C” is the contribution rate for the employer as determined under subparagraph (C) for the employer’s third full calendar year.
      - **(vi)** For purposes of computing B and C in such formulas—
        - **(I)** the percentage rate computed under subparagraph (C), shall not be reduced under clause (viii) of that subparagraph; and
        - **(II)** any computations which under subparagraph (C) are to be made on the basis of a 4-quarter or 12-quarter period ending on a given June 30 shall be made on the basis of a period commencing with the first day of the first calendar quarter that begins after the date on which the employer first commenced paying compensation subject to this chapter and ending on that June 30, and the amount so computed shall be increased to an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount so computed as 4 or 12, as appropriate, bears to the number of calendar quarters in the period on which the computation was based.
  - **(2)** An employer’s benefit ratio as of any given June 30 shall be determined by dividing all benefits charged to the employer under paragraph (15) during the 12 calendar quarters ending on such June 30 by the employer’s 3-year compensation base as of such June 30 as computed under paragraph (3).
  - **(3)** An employer’s 3-year compensation base as of any given June 30 is the aggregate compensation with respect to which contributions were paid by the employer under this subsection in the 12 calendar quarters ending on such June 30.
  - **(4)** An employer’s reserve ratio as of any given June 30 shall be computed by dividing the employer’s reserve balance as of such June 30, as computed under paragraph (6), by that employer’s 1-year compensation base as of such June 30, as computed under paragraph (5). The employer’s reserve ratio may be either a positive or a negative figure, depending upon whether the employer’s reserve balance is a positive or negative figure.
  - **(5)** An employer’s 1-year compensation base as of any given June 30 is the aggregate compensation with respect to which contributions were paid by the employer under this subsection in the 4 calendar quarters ending on such June 30.
  - **(6)** An employer’s reserve balance as of any given June 30 shall be determined by subtracting the employer’s cumulative benefit balance as of such June 30, computed under paragraph (7), from the employer’s net cumulative contribution balance as of such June 30, computed under paragraph (8). An employer’s reserve balance may be either positive or negative, depending upon whether or not that employer’s net cumulative contribution balance exceeds the employer’s cumulative benefit balance.
  - **(7)** An employer’s cumulative benefit balance as of any given June 30 shall be determined by adding—
    - **(A)** the net amount of the benefits charged to the employer under paragraph (15) on or after January 1, 1990 ; and
    - **(B)** the cumulative amount of the employer’s unallocated charges for the same period, if any, as computed under paragraph (9).
  - **(8)** An employer’s net cumulative contribution balance as of any given June 30 shall be determined as follows:
    - **(A)** Compute the sum of
      - **(i)** all contributions paid by the employer pursuant to this subsection;
      - **(ii)** that portion of the tax imposed under section 3321(a) of title 26 that is attributable to the surtax rate under section 516(b) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance and Retirement Improvement Act of 1988; 2 2 See References in Text note below. and
      - **(iii)** any taxes paid by the employer pursuant to section 3321(a) of title 26 (after the outstanding balance of loans made under section 360(d) of this title before October 1, 1985 , plus interest, have been paid);
    - **(B)** Subtract an amount equal to the amount of such contributions deposited to the credit of the fund under subsection (i) of this section.
    - **(C)** Add an amount equal to the aggregate amount by which such contributions were reduced in prior calendar years as a result of pooled credits, if any, under paragraph (1)(C)(iii).
  - **(9)** An employer’s unallocated charge as of any given June 30 is the amount that as of such June 30 bears the same ratio to the system unallocated charge balance, computed under paragraph (10), as the employer’s 1-year compensation base, computed under paragraph (5), bears to the system compensation base computed under paragraph (11).
  - **(10)** The system unallocated charge balance as of any given June 30 shall be determined as follows:
    - **(A)** Compute the aggregate amount of all interest paid by the account on loans from the Railroad Retirement Account after September 30, 1985 , pursuant to section 360(d) of this title , during the 4 calendar quarters ending on that June 30.
    - **(B)** Add the aggregate amount of any additions to the system unallocated charge balance specified in paragraphs (15) and (16), during that period.
    - **(C)** Add the aggregate amount of any other expenditures by the account during that period not chargeable to any individual employer under paragraph (15) or to the fund under section 361 of this title .
    - **(D)** Subtract the aggregate amount of all income to the account, under section 360(a)(iv) of this title or section 360(a)(vii) of this title , during that period.
    - **(E)** Subtract the aggregate amount of all transfers to the account, pursuant to section 361(d) of this title , during that period.
    - **(F)** Subtract the aggregate amount of all other income and receipts of the account, during that period, which are not assigned to individual employer balances.
    - **(G)** Subtract the net cumulative contribution balance of each employer whose balance has been cancelled pursuant to paragraph (16), during that period, calculated as of the date of such cancellation.
  - **(11)** The system compensation base as of any given June 30 shall be determined by adding together the amounts of the 1-year compensation bases of all employers and employee representatives subject to this chapter, computed in accordance with paragraph (5), as of such June 30.
  - **(12)** The pooled credit ratio, if any, for a calendar year shall be determined as follows:
    - **(A)** Compute the balance to the credit of the account as of the close of business on the preceding June 30, including any amounts in the account attributable to loans made under section 360(d) of this title before October 1, 1985 , but disregarding the obligation to repay such loans and interest thereon. In determining such balance as of June 30 of any year, so much of the balance to the credit of the railroad unemployment insurance administration fund as of the close of business on such date as is in excess of $6,000,000 shall be deemed to be part of the balance to the credit of such account. There will be a pooled credit ratio for the calendar year only if that balance is in excess of the greater of $250,000,000 or of the amount that bears the same ratio to $250,000,000 as the system compensation base as of that June 30 bears to the system compensation base as of June 30, 1991 , as computed in accordance with paragraph (11).
    - **(B)** If there is such an excess amount, divide that excess amount by the system compensation base as of the June 30 preceding the calendar year. The result is the pooled credit ratio for the calendar year.
  - **(13)** The pooled charge ratio, if any, for a calendar year shall be determined as follows:
    - **(A)** With respect to each employer whose contribution rate for that calendar year as computed through step 6 under paragraph (1)(C) was greater than the maximum contribution limit computed under paragraph (20), multiply the employer’s 1-year compensation base as of the preceding June 30, as computed in accordance with paragraph (5), by the difference between—
      - **(i)** the percentage rate determined under subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (1) before the reduction to the maximum contribution limit; and
      - **(ii)** the maximum contribution limit.
    - **(B)** Add the amounts arrived at under step 1 so as to obtain an aggregate amount for all such employers.
    - **(C)** For each employer whose contribution rate as computed through step 3 under paragraph (1)(C) was less than 0, the percentage rate by which such employer’s rate was raised in order to bring that rate to 0 shall be multiplied by that employer’s 1-year compensation base as of the preceding June 30. Subtract the total of the amounts computed under the preceding sentence for all employers from the amount arrived at in step 2.
    - **(D)** Divide the aggregate amount arrived at under step 3 by the system compensation base as of the preceding June 30 as computed under paragraph (11) minus the one-year compensation base of those employers whose rates computed through step 6 of paragraph (1)(C) exceeded the maximum contribution rate computed under paragraph (20). The result is the pooled charge ratio for the calendar year.
  - **(14)** The surcharge rate for a calendar year, if any, shall be determined as follows:
    - **(A)** Compute the balance to the credit of the account as of the close of business on the preceding June 30, including any amounts in the account attributable to loans made under section 360(d) of this title before October 1, 1985 , but disregarding the obligation to repay such loans and interest thereon. In determining such balance as of June 30 of any year, so much of the balance to the credit of the railroad unemployment insurance administration fund as of the close of business on such date as is in excess of $6,000,000 shall be deemed to be part of the balance to the credit of such account. There will be a surcharge rate for the calendar year only if that balance is less than the greater of $100,000,000 or of the amount that bears the same ratio to $100,000,000 as the system compensation base as of that June 30 bears to the system compensation base as of June 30, 1991 , as computed in accordance with paragraph (11).
    - **(B)**
      - **(i)** If the balance to the credit of the account is less than the greater of the amounts referred to in the 2nd sentence of step 1 but is equal to or more than the greater of $50,000,000 or of the amount that bears the same ratio to $50,000,000 as the system compensation base as of that June 30 bears to the system compensation base as of June 30, 1991 , then the surcharge rate for the calendar year shall be 1.5 percent.
      - **(ii)** If the balance to the credit of the account is less than the greater of the amounts referred to in the clause (i), but greater than or equal to zero, then the surcharge rate for the calendar year shall be 2.5 percent.
      - **(iii)** If the balance to the credit of the account is less than zero, the surcharge rate for the calendar year shall be 3.5 percent.
  - **(15)**
    - **(A)** Beginning January 1, 1990 , all benefits paid to an employee for days of unemployment or days of sickness shall be charged to that employee’s base year employer by adding amounts equal to the amounts of such benefits to the employer’s cumulative benefit balance except that benefits paid by reason of strikes or work stoppages growing out of labor disputes shall not be added to the employer’s cumulative benefit balance but instead shall be added to the system unallocated charge balance.
    - **(B)** A sum equal to each amount realized in recovery for overpayment, erroneous payment, or reimbursement of benefits and credited to the account pursuant to section 360(a)(v) or 360(a)(viii) of this title shall be subtracted from the cumulative benefit balances of the employers of the employees to whom such an amount was paid as a benefit in the proportion to the amount by which each such employer’s cumulative benefit balance was increased as a result of the payment of the benefit.
    - **(C)**
      - **(i)** All benefits paid to an employee who had more than 1 base-year employer shall be charged to the cumulative benefit balances of the employee’s base year employers—
        - **(I)** in reverse chronological order of the employee’s employment with each such employer in the base year if the employer at the time of the claim was the last base year employer, and the amount charged to each employer shall not exceed the compensation paid by that employer to the employee in the base year; and
        - **(II)** in all other cases, in the same ratio as the compensation paid to such employee by the employer bears to the total of such compensation paid to such employees by all such employers in the base year.
      - **(ii)** All benefits chargeable under this subparagraph to an employer for which the Board has cancelled balances under paragraph (16) shall be added to the system unallocated charge balance.
  - **(16)** Whenever the Board determines, pursuant to such regulations as the Board may prescribe, that an employer has permanently ceased to pay compensation with respect to which contributions are payable pursuant to this subsection, the Board shall, effective on the date of the Board’s determination, transfer the employer’s net cumulative contribution balance as a subtraction from, and cumulative benefit balance as an addition to, the system unallocated charge balance and cancel all other accumulations of the employer.
  - **(17)**
    - **(A)** As of January 1, 1990 , the Board shall commence maintaining an individual employer record with respect to each employer, and the records necessary to determine pooled charges, pooled credits and unallocated charge balances for the system. Whenever a new employer begins paying compensation with respect to which contributions are payable pursuant to this subsection, the Board shall establish and maintain an individual employer record for such employer.
    - **(B)** As used in this paragraph, the term “individual employer record” means a record of an individual employer’s benefit ratio, reserve ratio, 1-year compensation base, 3-year compensation base, unallocated charge, reserve balance, net cumulative contribution balance, and cumulative benefit balance.
  - **(18)** Pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Board, the Board may allow 2 or more employers, upon application, to establish and maintain, or to discontinue, a joint individual employer record for such employers as though such joint record constituted a single employer’s individual employer record.
  - **(19)**
    - **(A)** In the event of a merger, consolidation, unification, or reorganization in which an employer combines with another employer and the combination entails no partitioning of the property of the employer, the individual employer records of the 2 employers shall be combined into a joint individual employer record if the parties request such joint treatment pursuant to paragraph (18) or if the Board otherwise determines, pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Board, that such joint treatment is desirable.
    - **(B)** In the event of a merger, consolidation, unification, or reorganization in which an employer combines with another entity that is not an employer, the employer’s individual employer record shall attach to the combined entity.
    - **(C)** In the event property of an employer is sold or transferred to another employer or other entity, or is partitioned among 2 or more employers or entities, the cumulative benefit balance, net cumulative contribution balance, 1-year compensation base, and 3-year compensation base of the employer shall be prorated among the employers which receive the property, including any entities which become employers by virtue of such transfer or partition, in such equitable manner as the Board by regulation shall prescribe.
    - **(D)** The cumulative benefit balance, net cumulative contribution balance, 1-year compensation base, and 3-year compensation base of an employer that reincorporates or otherwise alters its corporate identity in a transaction not involving a merger, consolidation, or unification shall attach to the reincorporated or altered entity.
    - **(E)** If an employer abandons property or discontinues service but continues to operate as an employer, the employer’s individual employer record shall continue to be calculated as provided in this subsection without retroactive adjustment.
  - **(20)** The maximum contribution limit with respect to a calendar year is 12 percent, unless a 3.5 percent surcharge under paragraph (14) is in effect with respect to that calendar year. If such a surcharge is in effect the maximum contribution limit with respect to that calendar year is 12.5 percent.
  - **(21)**
    - **(A)** Any computation that is to be made under paragraph (1)(C) on the basis of a 12-quarter period ending on a given June 30 shall be made on the basis of a period—
      - **(i)** beginning on the later of—
        - **(I)** January 1, 1990 ;
        - **(II)** the first day of the first calendar quarter that begins after the date on which the employer first began to pay compensation subject to this chapter; or
        - **(III)** July 1 of the third calendar year preceding that June 30; and
      - **(ii)** ending on that June 30.
    - **(B)** The amount computed under subparagraph (A) shall be increased to an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount so computed as 12 bears to the number of calendar quarters on which the computation is based.
- **(b)** Each employee representative shall pay a contribution with respect to so much of the compensation paid to him for services performed as an employee representative as is not in excess of the monthly compensation base computed in accordance with section 351(i) of this title , at a rate which shall be determined under subsection (a) of this section in the same manner and with the same effect as if the employee organization by which such employee representative is employed were an employer as defined in this chapter.
- **(c)**
  - **(1)** Not later than October 15, 1990 , and October 15 of each year thereafter the Board shall proclaim—
    - **(A)** the balance to the credit of the account as of the preceding June 30 for purposes of paragraphs (12) and (14) of subsection (a) of this section;
    - **(B)** the balance of any advances to the account under section 360(d) of this title after September 30, 1985 , that has not been repaid with interest as provided in such section as of September 30 of that year;
    - **(C)** the system compensation base as of that June 30 as computed in accordance with paragraph (11) of that subsection;
    - **(D)** the system unallocated charge balance as of that June 30, as computed in accordance with paragraph (10) of that subsection; and
    - **(E)** the pooled credit ratio, the pooled charge ratio, and the surcharge rate, if any, as determined under paragraph (12), (13), or (14) of that subsection and applicable in the following calendar year.
  - **(2)** As soon as is practicable after such proclamation, the Board shall publish notice in the Federal Register of the amounts so determined and proclaimed.
- **(d)**
  - **(1)** Not later than the last day of any calendar quarter that begins after March 31, 1990 , the Board shall notify each employer and employee representative of its net cumulative contribution balance and cumulative benefit balance as of the end of the preceding calendar quarter, as computed in accordance with paragraphs (7) and (8) of subsection (a) of this section as of the last day of such preceding calendar quarter rather than as of a given June 30 if such last day is not a June 30.
  - **(2)** Not later than October 15, 1990 , and October 15 of each year thereafter, the Board shall notify each employer and employee representative of its benefit ratio, reserve ratio, 1-year compensation base, 3-year compensation base, unallocated charge, and reserve balance as of the preceding June 30 as computed in accordance with paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (9) of subsection (a) of this section, and of the contribution rate applicable to the employer or employee representative in the following calendar year as computed under paragraphs (1)(B), (C), or (D) of that subsection.
- **(e)** Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon request by an employer or employee representative, the Board shall make available to such employer or employee representative any information available to the Board which may be necessary to verify the accuracy of a contribution rate determined by the Board to be applicable to such employer or employee representative, or of any component of that contribution rate including the accuracy of the employer’s individual employer record, upon payment by such employer or employee representative to the Board of the cost incurred by the Board in making such information available. The amounts so paid to the Board shall be credited to and deposited in the fund.
- **(f)** In the payment of any contribution under this chapter, a fractional part of a cent shall be disregarded unless it amounts to one-half cent or more, in which case it shall be increased to one cent.
- **(g)** If more or less than the correct amount of the contribution required by this section is paid with respect to any compensation, then, under regulations prescribed under this chapter by the Board, proper adjustments with respect to the contribution shall be made, without interest, in connection with subsequent contribution payments made under this chapter by the same employer or employee representative.
- **(h)** If more or less than the correct amount of the contribution required by this section is paid with respect to any compensation and the overpayment or underpayment of the contribution cannot be adjusted under subsection (d) of this section, the amount of the overpayment shall be refunded from the account, or the amount of the underpayment shall be collected, in such manner and at such times (subject to the statute of limitations properly applicable thereto) as may be prescribed by regulations of the Board.
- **(i)** The contributions required by this chapter shall be collected by the Board and shall be deposited by it with the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, such part thereof as equals 0.65 per centum of the total compensation on which such contributions are based to be deposited to the credit of the fund and the balance to be deposited to the credit of the account.
- **(j)** The contributions required by this chapter shall be collected and paid quarterly or at such other times and in such manner and under such conditions not inconsistent with this chapter as may be prescribed by regulations of the Board, and shall not be deducted, in whole or in part, from the compensation of employees in the employer’s employ. If a contribution required by this chapter is not paid when due, there shall be added to the amount payable (except in the case of adjustments made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter) interest at the rate of 1 per centum per month or fraction of a month from the date the contribution became due until paid. Any interest collected pursuant to this subsection shall be credited to the account.
- **(k)** All provisions of law, including penalties, applicable with respect to any tax imposed by the provisions of the Railroad Retirement Tax Act [ 26 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.], insofar as applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, shall be applicable with respect to the contributions required by this chapter: Provided , That all authority and functions conferred by or pursuant to such provisions upon any officer or employee of the United States, except the authority to institute and prosecute, and the function of instituting and prosecuting, criminal proceedings, shall, with respect to such contributions, be vested in and exercised by the Board or such officers and employees of the Board as it may designate therefor. The remedies available under the first sentence of this subsection for an employer or employee representative who contests the amount of contributions payable by him shall also apply with respect to a contention that the contribution rate determined by the Board under subsection (a) or (b) of this section to be applicable to such employer or employee representative is inaccurate or otherwise improper.
