---
title: "Section 46111 - Certificate actions in response to a security threat"
usc_title: 49
usc_section: "46111"
chapter: 461
current_through: "PL 117-102"
classification: "49 U.S.C. § 46111"
generated_at: "2026-03-29T22:11:07.068Z"
---

# § 46111. Certificate actions in response to a security threat

- **(a)** The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall issue an order amending, modifying, suspending, or revoking any part of a certificate issued under this title if the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration is notified by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration that the holder of the certificate poses, or is suspected of posing, a risk of air piracy or terrorism or a threat to airline or passenger safety. If requested by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, the order shall be effective immediately.
- **(b)** An individual who is a citizen of the United States who is adversely affected by an order of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration under subsection (a) is entitled to a hearing on the record.
- **(c)** When conducting a hearing under this section, the administrative law judge shall not be bound by findings of fact or interpretations of laws and regulations of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration or the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
- **(d)** An appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge as the result of a hearing under subsection (b) shall be made to the Transportation Security Oversight Board established by section 115. The Board shall establish a panel to review the decision. The members of this panel (1) shall not be employees of the Transportation Security Administration, (2) shall have the level of security clearance needed to review the determination made under this section, and (3) shall be given access to all relevant documents that support that determination. The panel may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision.
- **(e)** A person substantially affected by an action of a panel under subsection (d), or the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration when the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration decides that the action of the panel under this section will have a significant adverse impact on carrying out this part, may obtain review of the order under section 46110. The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall be made a party to the review proceedings. Findings of fact of the panel are conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.
- **(f)** An individual who commences an appeal under this section shall receive a written explanation of the basis for the determination or decision and all relevant documents that support that determination to the maximum extent that the national security interests of the United States and other applicable laws permit.
- **(g)**
  - **(1)** The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, in consultation with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration and the Director of Central Intelligence, shall issue regulations to establish procedures by which the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, as part of a hearing conducted under this section, may provide an unclassified summary of classified evidence upon which the order of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration was based to the individual adversely affected by the order.
  - **(2)**
    - **(A)** As part of a hearing conducted under this section, if the order of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration issued under subsection (a) is based on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)), such information may be submitted by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration to the reviewing administrative law judge, pursuant to appropriate security procedures, and shall be reviewed by the administrative law judge ex parte and in camera.
    - **(B)** Pursuant to existing procedures and requirements, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall, in coordination, as necessary, with the heads of other affected departments or agencies, ensure that administrative law judges reviewing orders of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration under this section possess security clearances appropriate for their work under this section.
  - **(3)** As part of a hearing conducted under this section and upon the request of the individual adversely affected by an order of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration under subsection (a), the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall provide to the individual and reviewing administrative law judge, consistent with the procedures established under paragraph (1), an unclassified summary of any classified information upon which the order of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration is based.
