---
title: "Section 1586 - Sale of specific housing projects"
usc_title: 42
usc_section: "1586"
chapter: 9
current_through: "PL 113-36"
classification: "42 U.S.C. § 1586"
generated_at: "2026-03-30T03:11:40.256Z"
status: "active"
---

# § 1586. Sale of specific housing projects

- **(a)** The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is specifically authorized to convey the following housing projects to the following local public housing agencies respectively, if—
  - **(1)** on or before January 30, 1953 , (i) the conveyance is requested by the governing body of the municipality or county and (ii) the public housing agency has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development that there is a need for low-rent housing (as such term is defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.]) within the area of operation of such public housing agency which is not being met by private enterprise;
  - **(2)** the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development determines that the project requested will meet such need in whole or in part, and is suitable for low-rent housing use; and
  - **(3)** on or before June 30, 1953 , the governing body of the municipality or county enters into an agreement with the public housing agency (satisfactory to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development) providing for local cooperation and payments in lieu of taxes not in excess of the amount permitted by subsection (c)(5) of this section, and the public housing agency enters into an agreement with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in accordance with subsection (c) of this section) or for the administration of the project: State Project number Local public housing agency Alabama 1041 Housing Authority of District of Birmingham. 1061 Housing Authority of Greater Gadsden. 1062 Housing Authority of Greater Gadsden. 1031 Housing Board of Mobile. 1033 Housing Board of Mobile. 1034 Housing Board of Mobile. 1035 Housing Board of Mobile. 1036 Housing Board of Mobile. 1101 Housing Board of Mobile. 1102 Housing Board of Mobile. 1072 Housing Authority of Sylacauga. 1076 Housing Authority of Sylacauga. 1073 Housing Authority of City of Talladega. Arkansas 3023 Housing Authority of City of Conway. California 4031 Housing Authority of City of Fresno. 4161 Housing Authority of County of Kern. 4141 Housing Authority of County of Kern. 4103 Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles. 4104 Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles. 4108 Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles. 4121 Housing Authority of City of Paso Robles. 4171 Housing Authority of City of Richmond. 4174 Housing Authority of City of Richmond. Connecticut 6091 Housing Authority of City of Bristol. 6024 Housing Authority of Town of East Hartford. 6031 Housing Authority of City of New Britain. 6032 Housing Authority of City of New Britain. 6101 Housing Authority of City of New Haven. 6041 Housing Authority of City of Waterbury. 6213 Housing Authority of City of Waterbury. District of Columbia 49012 National Capital Housing Authority. 49017 National Capital Housing Authority. 49044 National Capital Housing Authority. Florida 8052 Housing Authority of City of Jacksonville. 8121 Housing Authority of City of Lakeland. 8062 Housing Authority of City of Miami. 8011 Housing Authority of City of Orlando. 8082 Housing Authority of City of Pensacola. 8084 Housing Authority of City of Pensacola. 8085 Housing Authority of City of Pensacola. 8131 Housing Authority of City of Sebring. 8041 Housing Authority of City of West Palm Beach. Georgia 9071 Housing Authority of City of Albany. 9061 Housing Authority of Macon. 9063 Housing Authority of Macon. 9041 Housing Authority of Savannah. 9042 Housing Authority of Savannah. 9043 Housing Authority of Savannah. Illinois 11081 Madison County Housing Authority. 11082 Madison County Housing Authority. 11111 Winnebago County Housing Authority. 11112 Winnebago County Housing Authority. Indiana 12071 Housing Authority of City of Fort Wayne. 12021 Housing Authority of City of South Bend. Louisiana 16051 Housing Authority of Parish of East Baton Rouge. Maryland 18095 Housing Authority of Baltimore City. 18096 Housing Authority of Baltimore City. 18097 Housing Authority of Baltimore City. 18098 Housing Authority of Baltimore City. Massachusetts 19051 Boston Housing Authority. 19021 Chicopee Housing Authority. 19022 Chicopee Housing Authority. 19061 Pittsfield Housing Authority. 19023 Springfield Housing Authority. Michigan 20042 Housing Commission of Detroit. Nevada 26021 Housing Authority of City of Las Vegas. New Hampshire 27021 Housing Authority of City of Manchester. New Jersey 28044 Housing Authority of City of Camden. 28021 Housing Authority of City of Long Branch. 28072 Housing Authority of City of Newark. 28111 Housing Authority of Town of Phillipsburg. New York 30031 Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority. 30032 Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority. 30042 Elmira Housing Authority. 30033 Lackawanna Municipal Housing Authority. 30039 Lackawanna Municipal Housing Authority. 30034 Niagara Falls Housing Authority. 30071 Niagara Falls Housing Authority. 30082 Massena Housing Authority. North Carolina 31023 Housing Authority of City of Wilmington. 31024 Housing Authority of City of Wilmington. Ohio 33031 Canton Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33033 Canton Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33021 Cincinnati Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33071 Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33074 Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33075 Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33112 Lorain Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33261 Lorain Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33262 Lorain Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33041 Warren Metropolitan Housing Authority. 33043 Warren Metropolitan Housing Authority. Oregon 35021 Housing Authority of Portland. Pennsylvania 36051 Housing Authority of County of Beaver. 36058 Housing Authority of County of Beaver. 36041 Housing Authority of Bethlehem. 36042 Housing Authority of Bethlehem. 36044 Housing Authority of Bethlehem. 36151 Allegheny County Housing Authority. 36152 Allegheny County Housing Authority. 36061 Housing Authority of County of Lawrence. 36021 Housing Authority of City of Erie. 36031 Housing Authority of County of Lycoming. 36011 Housing Authority of Philadelphia. 36012 Housing Authority of Philadelphia. 36014 Housing Authority of Philadelphia. 36015 Housing Authority of Philadelphia. 36016 Housing Authority of Philadelphia. 36101 Housing Authority of City of Pittsburgh. 36212 Allegheny County Housing Authority. 36295 Housing Authority of City of York. Rhode Island 37013 Housing Authority of City of Newport. South Carolina 38023 Housing Authority of City of Charleston. 38061 Housing Authority of City of Charleston. 38041 Housing Authority of City of Spartanburg. 38042 Housing Authority of City of Spartanburg. Tennessee 40022 Jackson Housing Authority. 40023 Milan Housing Authority. 40011 Nashville Housing Authority. 40025 Trenton Housing Authority. Texas 41064 Housing Authority of City of Corpus Christi. 41065 Housing Authority of City of Corpus Christi. 41133 Housing Authority of City of Freeport. 41031 Housing Authority of City of Houston. 41131 Housing Authority of City of Lake Jackson. 41101 Housing Authority of City of Mineral Wells. 41103 Housing Authority of City of Mineral Wells. 41072 Housing Authority of City of Orange. 41032 Housing Authority of City of Pasadena. 41141 Housing Authority of City of Texarkana. 41121 Housing Authority of City of Wichita Falls. Virginia 44131 Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority. 44132 Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority. 44133 Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority. 44135 Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority. 44136 Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority. 44065 Newport News Redevelopment and Housing Authority. 44074 Norfolk Redevelopment and Housing Authority. 44086 Portsmouth Redevelopment and Housing Authority. Washington 45043 Housing Authority of City of Bremerton. 45277N Housing Authority of County of Clallam. 45315N Housing Authority of County of Clallam. 45133 Housing Authority of County of King. 45052 Housing Authority of City of Seattle. 45053 Housing Authority of City of Seattle. 45054 Housing Authority of City of Seattle. 45055 Housing Authority of City of Seattle. 45056 Housing Authority of City of Seattle. 45122 Housing Authority of City of Vancouver.
- **(b)** Upon the conveyance by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development of any such project pursuant to the provisions of this section, such project shall constitute and be deemed to be “low-rent housing” as that term is used and defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.] (and to be a low-rent housing project assisted pursuant to that Act, within the meaning of section 1404a(b) of this title ). Any instrument of conveyance by the Administrator stating that it is executed under subchapters II to VII of this chapter shall be conclusive evidence of compliance therewith insofar as any title or other interest in the property is concerned.
- **(c)** The agreement between the public housing agency and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development required by subsection (a) of this section shall contain the following conditions and requirements, and may contain such further conditions, requirements, and provisions as the Secretary determines—
  - **(1)** during a period of forty years following the conveyance the project shall be administered as low-rent housing in accordance with subsections 2(1) and 2(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1402(1) and (2)]: Provided , That if at any time during such period the public housing agency and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development agree that the project, or any part thereof, is no longer suitable for use as low-rent housing, the project, or part thereof, shall with the approval of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development be sold by the public housing agency after which the agreement shall be deemed to have terminated with respect to such project or part thereof except that the proceeds from such sale, after payment of the reasonable expense thereof, shall be paid to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, or, with the Secretary’s approval, used to finance the repair or rehabilitation of a project or part thereof conveyed to the public housing agency under this section;
  - **(2)** the public housing agency shall, within six months following the conveyance, initiate a program for the removal of all families residing in the project on the date of conveyance who are ineligible under the provisions of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.] for continued occupancy therein, and shall have required such ineligible tenants to vacate their dwellings within eighteen months after the initiation of such program: Provided , That military personnel as designated by the Secretary of Defense or his designee shall not be subject to such removal until eighteen months after the date of conveyance;
  - **(3)** annually during the term of such agreement, the public housing agency shall pay to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development all income from the project remaining after deducting the amounts necessary (as determined pursuant to regulations of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development) for (i) the payment of reasonable and proper costs of operating, maintaining, and approving such project, (ii) the payments in lieu of taxes authorized hereunder, (iii) the establishment and maintenance of reasonable and proper reserves as approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and (iv) the payment of currently maturing installments of principal of and interest on any indebtedness incurred by such public housing agency with the approval of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: Provided , That the provisions of this paragraph shall not be applicable to any project which is consolidated under a single contract with one or more low-rent projects being assisted under the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.], and all income from any such project conveyed under this section may be commingled with funds of the project or projects with which it is consolidated and applied in accordance with the requirements of the consolidated contract and the provisions of section 10(c) of the said Act [ 42 U.S.C. 1410(c) ];
  - **(4)** during the term of such agreement, the project shall be exempt from all real and personal property taxes levied or imposed by the State, city, county, or other political subdivisions;
  - **(5)** for the tax year in which the conveyance is made and the next succeeding tax year annual payments in lieu of taxes may be made to the State, city, county, or other political subdivisions in amounts not in excess of the real property taxes which would be paid to such State, city, county, or other political subdivisions if the project were not exempt from taxation; and thereafter, during the term of such agreement, payments in lieu of taxes with respect to the project may be made in annual amounts which do not exceed 10 per centum of the annual shelter rents charged in such project;
  - **(6)** in selecting tenants for such project, the public housing agency shall give such preferences as are prescribed by subsection 10(g) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1410g ], except that for one year after the date of conveyance of a project, the public housing agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, give such preferences, by allocation or otherwise, to military personnel as the Secretary of Defense or his designee prescribes to the public housing agency; and
  - **(7)** upon the occurrence of a substantial default in respect to the requirements and conditions to which the public housing agency is subject (as such substantial default shall be defined in such agreement), the public housing agency shall be obligated at the option of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, either to convey title in any case where, in the determination of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, (which determination shall be final and conclusive), such conveyance of title is necessary to achieve the purposes of this subchapter and the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.], or to deliver possession to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development of the project, as then constituted, to which such agreement relates: Provided , That in the event of such conveyance of title or delivery of possession, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may improve and administer such project as low-rent housing, and otherwise deal with such housing or parts thereof, subject, however, to the limitations contained in the applicable provisions of the United States Housing Act of 1937. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall be obligated to reconvey or to redeliver possession of the project, as constituted at the time of reconveyance or redelivery, to such public housing agency or to its successor (if such public housing agency or a successor exists) upon such terms as shall be prescribed in such agreement and as soon as practicable after the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall be satisfied that all defaults with respect to the project have been cured, and that the project will, in order to fulfill the purposes of this subchapter and the United States Housing Act of 1937, thereafter be operated in accordance with the terms of such agreement. Any prior conveyances and reconveyances, deliveries and redeliveries of possession shall not exhaust the right to require a conveyance or delivery of possession of the project to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to this paragraph upon the subsequent occurrence of a substantial default.
- **(d)** At the end of each fiscal year, the total amount of payments during such year to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in accordance with subsection (c) of this section shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
