---
title: "Section 1504 - Rental rates; exemption from limitations of United States Housing Act of 1937"
usc_title: 42
usc_section: "1504"
chapter: 9
current_through: "PL 117-159"
classification: "42 U.S.C. § 1504"
generated_at: "2026-03-29T23:07:11.110Z"
---

# § 1504. Rental rates; exemption from limitations of United States Housing Act of 1937

Any contract made for financial assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended [ 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.], may be revised so as to provide that the project involved will be assisted for any of the purposes of this subchapter. The Department of the Navy or Army or the Air Force or the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in the administration of any project developed for the purposes of this subchapter, shall fix rentals for persons engaged in national defense activities and their families which will be within their financial reach, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in any contract for financial assistance or any lease of such a project, shall require the fixing of such rentals. Projects developed by the Department of the Navy or Army or Air Force, or developed or assisted by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, for the purposes of this subchapter shall not be subject to the elimination requirements of sections 10(a) and 11(a) of said Act [ 42 U.S.C. 1410(a) , 1411(a)], or to any provisions of section 9 of said Act [ 42 U.S.C. 1409 ] which would require any part of the development cost thereof to be met in any manner other than from funds loaned or furnished by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Funds expended for the purposes of this subchapter shall be excluded in determining, for the purposes of section 21(d) 1 1 See References in Text note below. of said Act [ 42 U.S.C. 1421(d) ], the amounts expended within each State. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter or as may be inconsistent with this subchapter, all the provisions of title I 2 2 So in original. Reference should probably be to entire “United States Housing Act of 1937” because such Act is not divided into titles. See section 1437 et seq. of this title. of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [ 42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.] shall apply to this subchapter. During the period when the President determines that in any locality there is an acute need for housing to assure the availability of dwellings for persons engaged in national defense activities, dwellings in a project developed or assisted in said locality which are devoted to the purposes of providing housing for persons engaged in national defense activities shall not be subject to sections 2(1) and 2(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended [ 42 U.S.C. 1402(1) , (2)], and during such period such projects shall be deemed projects of a low-rent character for the purposes of any of the applicable provisions in title I 2 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.

