---
title: "Section 7627 - Air pollution from Outer Continental Shelf activities"
usc_title: 42
usc_section: "7627"
chapter: 85
current_through: "PL 115-171"
classification: "42 U.S.C. § 7627"
generated_at: "2026-03-30T07:16:11.431Z"
status: "active"
---

# § 7627. Air pollution from Outer Continental Shelf activities

- **(a)**
  - **(1)** Not later than 12 months after November 15, 1990 , following consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, the Administrator, by rule, shall establish requirements to control air pollution from Outer Continental Shelf sources located offshore of the States along the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic Coasts (other than Outer Continental Shelf sources located offshore of the North Slope Borough of the State of Alaska), and along the United States Gulf Coast off the State of Florida eastward of longitude 87 degrees and 30 minutes (“OCS sources”) to attain and maintain Federal and State ambient air quality standards and to comply with the provisions of part C of subchapter I. For such sources located within 25 miles of the seaward boundary of such States, such requirements shall be the same as would be applicable if the source were located in the corresponding onshore area, and shall include, but not be limited to, State and local requirements for emission controls, emission limitations, offsets, permitting, monitoring, testing, and reporting. New OCS sources shall comply with such requirements on the date of promulgation and existing OCS sources shall comply on the date 24 months thereafter. The Administrator shall update such requirements as necessary to maintain consistency with onshore regulations and this chapter. The authority of this subsection shall supersede section 5(a)(8) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act [ 43 U.S.C. 1334(a)(8) ] but shall not repeal or modify any other Federal, State, or local authorities with respect to air quality. Each requirement established under this section shall be treated, for purposes of sections 7413, 7414, 7416, 7420, and 7604 of this title, as a standard under section 7411 of this title and a violation of any such requirement shall be considered a violation of section 7411(e) of this title .
  - **(2)** The Administrator may exempt an OCS source from a specific requirement in effect under regulations under this subsection if the Administrator finds that compliance with a pollution control technology requirement is technically infeasible or will cause an unreasonable threat to health and safety. The Administrator shall make written findings explaining the basis of any exemption issued pursuant to this subsection and shall impose another requirement equal to or as close in stringency to the original requirement as possible. The Administrator shall ensure that any increase in emissions due to the granting of an exemption is offset by reductions in actual emissions, not otherwise required by this chapter, from the same source or other sources in the area or in the corresponding onshore area. The Administrator shall establish procedures to provide for public notice and comment on exemptions proposed pursuant to this subsection.
  - **(3)** Each State adjacent to an OCS source included under this subsection may promulgate and submit to the Administrator regulations for implementing and enforcing the requirements of this subsection. If the Administrator finds that the State regulations are adequate, the Administrator shall delegate to that State any authority the Administrator has under this chapter to implement and enforce such requirements. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the Administrator from enforcing any requirement of this section.
  - **(4)** For purposes of subsections (a) and (b)—
    - **(A)** The term “Outer Continental Shelf” has the meaning provided by section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 ).
    - **(B)** The term “corresponding onshore area” means, with respect to any OCS source, the onshore attainment or nonattainment area that is closest to the source, unless the Administrator determines that another area with more stringent requirements with respect to the control and abatement of air pollution may reasonably be expected to be affected by such emissions. Such determination shall be based on the potential for air pollutants from the OCS source to reach the other onshore area and the potential of such air pollutants to affect the efforts of the other onshore area to attain or maintain any Federal or State ambient air quality standard or to comply with the provisions of part C of subchapter I.
    - **(C)** The terms “Outer Continental Shelf source” and “OCS source” include any equipment, activity, or facility which—
      - **(i)** emits or has the potential to emit any air pollutant,
      - **(ii)** is regulated or authorized under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act [ 43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.], and
      - **(iii)** is located on the Outer Continental Shelf or in or on waters above the Outer Continental Shelf.
    - **(D)** The term “new OCS source” means an OCS source which is a new source within the meaning of section 7411(a) of this title . The term “existing OCS source” means any OCS source other than a new OCS source.
- **(b)** For portions of the United States Outer Continental Shelf that are adjacent to the States not covered by subsection (a) which are Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama or are adjacent to the North Slope Borough of the State of Alaska, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator to assure coordination of air pollution control regulation for Outer Continental Shelf emissions and emissions in adjacent onshore areas. Concurrently with this obligation, the Secretary shall complete within 3 years of November 15, 1990 , a research study examining the impacts of emissions from Outer Continental Shelf activities in such areas that fail to meet the national ambient air quality standards for either ozone or nitrogen dioxide. Based on the results of this study, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator and determine if any additional actions are necessary. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to provide funding for the study required under this section.
- **(c)**
  - **(1)** The study report of section 7412(n) 1 1 So in original. Probably should be section “7412(m)”. of this title shall apply to the coastal waters of the United States to the same extent and in the same manner as such requirements apply to the Great Lakes, the Chesapeake Bay, and their tributary waters.
  - **(2)** The regulatory requirements of section 7412(n) 1 of this title shall apply to the coastal waters of the States which are subject to subsection (a) of this section, to the same extent and in the same manner as such requirements apply to the Great Lakes, the Chesapeake Bay, and their tributary waters.
